In this video I'm going to show you how to download and install Cisco Packet Tracer on a Mac.
In this example I'm running Cisco is Catalina
now Cisco packet Tracy's free software that you can download from the Cisco website.
All you need to do is register for free course.
You don't have to take the course if you don't want to but you need to register and then you'll be able
to download Cisco Packet Tracer.
So I'll show you how to register for that course how to download the software how to get it running
on a Mac how to create a basic topology and explain a few features within Cisco Packet Tracer.
So once again I'm running Mac OS Catalina I'm going to open up a web browser and I'm simply going to
search for Cisco Packet Tracer my first hit is the network CAD Web site.
So Medicaid courses Packet Tracer now in the past you had to have a dedicated logging to this Web site
so you had a dedicated log in for the Networking Academy Web site that was different to Cisco dot com.
Now this same log in is used.
So if you have a Cisco log in you can simply log in to the Medicaid web site using your Cisco credentials.
If you don't have a log in scroll down and click and roll to download Packet Tracer.
This course is an introduction to Cisco Packet Tracer.
It's 10 hours in length.
It's once again free.
But you do need to sign up for this course if you want to download Cisco packet tracer and you don't
have a Cisco log in.
So I'm going to click sign up today select English and I'm going to specify my logging details.
So first name last name and email address.
Now you email address has to be a valid e-mail address by going to email you some details it has to
be a valid email address so once I've done that and I've clicked submit I'm told to check my email and
click on the Get Started link to access your account self now received an email from the Cisco Networking
Academy they click activate account to activate my account so I need to specify my email address my
first name last name I need to specify my country and company.
And let me give you a hint.
If you don't work for a company specify the company itself as in self-employed so specify your country
specify your company itself.
If you don't work for a company put in your password reconfirm that enter the capture information refresh
it.
If you can't read it decide whether you want to receive emails or not and click register registration
process is now complete and we're told that we'll be redirected to log in some to specify my email address
into my password and click sign in we told that they were excited to have us join them.
But they need more information so we need to specify First Name Last Name Email address specified whether
we want to receive important emails from Cisco Networking Academy specify gender country specify state
how many years we've been in the networking industry do we have a disability specify OUR BIRTH DATE
SO THEY want quite a bit of personal information here.
Decide if you want to disclose your race and whether you've served in the US military and then click
Create Account.
OK so there you go we've now registered and we have access to the network Academy website.
You can launch the course at this point if you want to but I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to close that and go to resources download Packet Tracer scrolling down there are different
versions of Cisco Packet Tracer there are Windows versions Linux version but what we want is Mac OS
so I'm going to click the download link for Mac OS and I'm going to download Cisco Packet Tracer to
my computer so all you need to do now is wait for that download to complete Cisco packet traces about
146 Meg and size as you can see there are a few steps that you have to take to download Cisco Packet
Tracer but it is free software.
In the past you had to be part of the Networking Academy that's no longer true.
Anyone can download Cisco Packet Tracer by simply registering on the Cisco Web site okay.
The software has downloaded I'm going to double click on the DMV file and then double click on the installation
app
we warned that this application was downloaded from the Internet.
Do we really want to open it.
Yes we do.
Some may click open the package traced the setup was it displays.
I'm going to click continue
to install the software you need to accept the license agreement so read through that and click Accept
of a license.
Click Continue and then click install Cisco Packet Tracer is now being installed.
So it's a fairly simple installation process you simply need to agree to the license and install the
software put in your password to allow Packet Tracer to make changes the installation has finished.
So I'm going to click continue and click done okay so there you go packet tracer has now installed so
I can search for that on my Mac and start a Cisco Packet Tracer.
Now because we running Packet Tracer for the first time we told that user files will be stored in this
directory we can change that through preferences at a later time.
I'm okay with that.
Someone click Okay.
As you can see packet traces starting up now when packet traces starts up.
We need to specify our user name or email so I'm going to do that and click Next specify my password
and click sign in and there you go packet traces is now running on my Mac.
Once again I'm using Mako as Catalina in this example.
I've got Cisco packet tracer version 7 to 2 running on my Mac.
Now Cisco Packet Tracer supports a lot of devices we have routers so various types of riders switches
hubs wireless devices firewalls when emulation devices they are end devices such as pieces laptops various
home devices we can program Internet of Things.
There are various connection types but to get us started let's build a basic network of Cisco devices.
Here's a router cell select the rider and then click in the workspace and add it to the workspace area
or topology area.
So here's my first router I'll select a second router so I've got right of one and right to now I'll
select a switch and let's take a 35 60 and add that to the topology.
Now you can change the icons if you like.
I'll show you how to do that in a separate video so you could change to the logical or physical view
of your devices.
But for now let's select connections various connection types can be used.
So we could allow it to automatically choose the connection type.
We've got console straight through cables crossover cables fibre cables phone cables etc. But in this
example I'm going to select straight through copper cable.
Select the first router first Ethernet interface select the first Ethernet interface on the switch and
I'll just zoom in here to make sure that it's easier to see what I'll do here just to show you the process
is deletes this connection.
Press escape
selected my ethernet cable selected the first Ethernet interface on the router first Ethernet interface
on the switch select straight through copper again second Ethernet interface on the switch first Ethan
it interface on the router K that zoom is not showing the icons very nicely but you can change the icons
if you like Cisco packet tracer today is very powerful if you go to Cisco packet trace preferences you
can change as an example the font of your CLIA interface and I'm gonna want to do this because otherwise
it's going to be too small something to set it to 18 and click apply you can change the way the interface
looks so as an example Shope put labels in the logical workspace and that shows us our interface labels
in this topology diagram notice at the moment the interfaces are down Cisco routers by default have
their interfaces shut down.
Here's a view of my router I can zoom in and as you can see there are two gigabit interfaces on this
writer I could add modules to the right if I wanted to
I need to give packet tracer rights to do stuff on my computer so I'll do that and then what I'll try
and do is add that module to the router I can't because it's currently powered on.
So if I wanted to add a module to the right I need to turn the rudder off and then I can add the module
to the rider and then I could turn it on again so if I go to the CLIA you'll see that the road is currently
booting up.
Now again if this font is too small what you can do is go to Cisco Packet Tracer preferences go to font
and then let's make this even bigger let's make it 20 and click apply
and what you can see there is the font is bigger rather interfaces as I was saying are by default shut
down switch interfaces are by default up when the device is turned on but the switch is currently off
so if I go to see a lie We're told that the device must be powered on.
So I need to add a power supply to the switch and now the switch starts booting up.
If I go to the second router zoom in.
No modules added but as you can see here the router has booted up.
Now you can change the labels of your devices.
So what I'll do is I'll change them to the following.
I'll call this right to rather than write a one and that broader one and the switch one on right at
two I'll bypass the initial configuration dialog.
That was an older way of configuring devices.
I wouldn't recommend that you use that a press Enter to get started and I'm now in what's called the
user mode on the router user mode allows you to view options or outputs on the device but not make changes
to it.
So as an example I can type show a version to see the version of router so I type quite quickly there
so let me go back.
That command show version shows me the version of operating system that this writer is using.
It's running Cisco XY software.
Here's the version of software 15 dot five.
I can see that to the right according to packet tracer has been up for five minutes and spacebar allows
me to see one page of output at a time.
If I type E and press tab that order completes the command and thus takes me to what's called privilege
mode or enable mode.
This gives me full rights to the system it's kind of like it administrator in Windows or root in Linux
gives me a lot more privileges to do things such as go to configure mode I'm going to type C O an F
and press tab t tab.
This takes me to what's called Global configuration mode and I can now configure things on this device
such as the hostname.
So I typed H O host tab.
Question Mark tells me what options are available and what I'll do here is specify the hostname of the
writer so hostname We'll be right to on interface so type I N T.
Tab gigabit.
0 0 0 so g.
Tab question mark shows me the options available carriage return here sir on interface gigabit.
0 0 0.
I'm gonna type.
No shut.
Notice the interface when Green interface has come up.
Specify an IP address in this case I'll specify 10 1 1 2 with a subnet mask of that type.
And that takes me back to privilege mode or enable mode.
And I'm going to type the copy running config startup config to save the broader configuration.
What I've done here is configure an IP address on this right write it to.
Now the reason why this is green is because switches run something called spanning tree which helps
stop loops in a topology suspending tree takes a while to converge or sort things out.
So this will go green and there it's just done that once spanning tree has determined that there are
no loops in the topology.
I'll go back to write a one bypass the initial configuration dialog press Enter two or return to get
started.
Type enable notice I can use shortcut commands rather than typing the full command and I could specify
the hostname as write a one interface gigabit.
0 0 0.
No shut which is actually no shut down to enable the interface interfaces come up and I can specify
an IP address of 10 1 1 1 and a subnet mask.
Now I've just decided to use these IP addresses you could use any IP address that you want to use that
makes sense in your topology.
I typed end yet to go back to privilege mode.
Now once the interface has gone green.
In other words once spanning tree has converged I'll be able to ping the other rider for the moment
alt ping myself as a test so rider 1 has pinged its IP address you can see the IP address of the rider
by typing show IP interface brief this IP address is configured on this interface.
So I've been able to ping myself in this topology.
I won't be able to ping Rider 2 until spending 3 converges because spanning tree blocks traffic as in
pings or any type of normal user traffic until the network has converged.
And as you can see there the pings started succeeding.
Once the interface went green.
In other words once spanning tree had converged and now I'll be able to ping Rider 2.
Now it's running a little bit slow here.
There it's a bit quicker.
Don't worry too much about that.
The moral of the story is that right.
One can ping Rider 2 and ride it to camping rider 1 and there you go.
Last thing I want to do once again is save my configuration so copy of Running config startup config.
Save the rider configuration.
That's a longer way to do it but that's the way they will teach you to do it in the CCMA.
I typically type w are much quicker way of doing it.
That's an older command.
Saves you a lot more time.
Now we haven't done any configuration on the switch.
I can bypass the initial switch configuration dialog type enable conf t takes me to global config mode
give the switch a name and in this example I'll simply do that.
Save the config so I've given the switch a name but I haven't done anything else on the switch at this
point.
I could close my packet tracer topology down but I'm told that I'll lose my changes don't want to save
them and the answer is yes.
Give it a name.
So my first packet tracer network and click save and then save the topology.
Let's start packing tracer up once again.
So I'll start it up.
I'll go to file open recent files select my packet trace the network and there you go the topology has
been restored.
Now our interface labels are not showing nicely.
So what I prefer to do is manually configure my interface labels but you can decide based on this option
whether you want to display port labels in a logical workspace so it's interesting in this example is
packet traces not displaying the interface labels nicely.
What I tend to do is place a note here and then specify my interface labels like that.
Once I did that it actually showed them properly but you could use this option where you manually add
the labels and what I like about that is you can control where the labels are in your topology So I'm
to go to Cisco packet tracer preferences.
I'm going to not show the port labels and then I'm going to manually move these around where I want
them to be in the topology.
So I prefer doing it that way.
I'll go back on to write a 1 C ally the router has booted up now so typing able.
Can we ping it too from writer 1.
And the answer is yes we can.
So I've shown you now how to download and install Cisco packet tracer on a Mac.
I've shown you how to create a topology how to save that topology how to restore it.
Basically how to use the basics of Cisco packet tracer.
Have a look at the course on Cisco's website if you want to learn more about the options available within
Cisco Packet Tracer.
I'm not going to try and show you in my videos all the options within the Cisco Packet Tracer software
Cisco have already created a free course that shows you that I'm going to show you specific options
for the CCMA exam and how to practically use this to learn networking.